README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/soramitsu/gradle-sora-plugin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/soramitsu/gradle-sora-plugin)

# gradle-devops-helper

Min supported gradle 4.8

## Usage

https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/jp.co.soramitsu.sora-plugin

## Tasks

| **Task name**    | **Tasks executed**               | **Description**                                         |
|------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| build            | compile + build                  | Builds, does NOT execute check or test.                 |
| check            | build + test + check             | Builds, then executes static code analyzers             |
| test             | build + test                     | Builds, then executes all registered tests              |
| coverage         | build + test + coverage          | Builds, executes tests and then collects code coverage. |
| printOsInfo      | printOsInfo                      | Prints information about OS and project                 |
| printVersion     | printVersion                     | Prints project version based on git                     |
| printConfig      | printConfig                      | Prints plugin configuration                             |
| dockerVersion    | dockerVersion                    | Prints current docker version                           |
| dockerClean      | dockerClean                      | Cleans docker build context (build/docker)              |
| dockerfileCreate | dockerClean + dockerfileCreate   | Generates Dockerfile in build context                   |
| dockerCopyJar    | build + dockerCopyJar            | Builds and copies JAR to build context                  |
| dockerCopyFiles  | dockerCopyFiles                  | Copies custom files specified to build context          |
| dockerBuild      | dockerfileCreate + dockerCopyJar | Builds image with autogenerated tag                     |
| dockerPush       | dockerBuild + dockerPush         | Pushes image to docker registry                         |

**NOTE**:
- to enable `docker*` tasks, please apply plugin `application`
- `build`, `test`, `check` tasks will be modified ONLY if `java` plugin is applied 

## Configuration

All fields are optional.

build.gradle:
```gradle
soramitsu {
  projectGroup = 'sora' # define namespace for your project. default: null
  docker {
    # path to output JAR which is going to be dockerized
    jar = new File("build/libs/${project.name}-${project.version}.jar") 
    # manually specified docker tag. if null, automatic versioning based on git is used 
    # it replaces only 'version' part, e.g. ${name}:${tag}. Example: soramitsu/example:${tag}
    tag = "custom-tag"  
    # to enable dockerPush task, define registry credentials
    registry {
      url = 'https://nexus.iroha.tech:19001' 
      username = 'bogdan'
      password = 'password'
      email = 'bogdan@soramitsu.co.jp'  # optional
    }
    # files that will be added to the docker image (optional)
    # host fs: docker image fs
    files = [local-file.txt: /file.txt]
    # optional startup arguments for java
    # java -jar ... $args
    args = "-version"
  }
}
```

Docker registry data can be defined from env vars. Env vars ALWAYS override any value from build.gradle:
```bash
DOCKER_REGISTRY_URL="https://nexus.iroha.tech:19001"
DOCKER_REGISTRY_USERNAME="bogdan"
DOCKER_REGISTRY_PASSWORD="password"
DOCKER_REGISTRY_EMAIL="bogdan@soramitsu.co.jp"
```

## Features

- [x] automatic versioning based on git ([read more](https://github.com/palantir/gradle-git-version/))
- [x] build does not invoke tests (only with plugin `java`)
- [ ] separate `check` task for static code analysis; formatting analysis
- [x] `coverage` task, which invokes all tests and   
- [x] `dockerBuild` task to build docker image
- [x] automatic tag generation. Tag consists of `${url}/${projectGroup}/${project.name}:${project.version}`
  - url - url of docker registry without http(s)://
  - projectGroup - e.g. sora, bakong, etc.  
  - project.name - defined in settings.gradle
  - project.version - git version
- [x] configuration of docker registry from env vars

## Examples

See [projects](./projects) directory.

Commit message:

Add configurable base docker image
Signed-off-by: Bogdan Vaneev <warchantua@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/soramitsu/gradle-sora-plugin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/soramitsu/gradle-sora-plugin)

# gradle-devops-helper

Min supported gradle 4.8

## Usage

https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/jp.co.soramitsu.sora-plugin

## Tasks

| **Task name**    | **Tasks executed**               | **Description**                                         |
|------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| build            | compile + build                  | Builds, does NOT execute check or test.                 |
| check            | build + test + check             | Builds, then executes static code analyzers             |
| test             | build + test                     | Builds, then executes all registered tests              |
| coverage         | build + test + coverage          | Builds, executes tests and then collects code coverage. |
| printOsInfo      | printOsInfo                      | Prints information about OS and project                 |
| printVersion     | printVersion                     | Prints project version based on git                     |
| printConfig      | printConfig                      | Prints plugin configuration                             |
| dockerVersion    | dockerVersion                    | Prints current docker version                           |
| dockerClean      | dockerClean                      | Cleans docker build context (build/docker)              |
| dockerfileCreate | dockerClean + dockerfileCreate   | Generates Dockerfile in build context                   |
| dockerCopyJar    | build + dockerCopyJar            | Builds and copies JAR to build context                  |
| dockerCopyFiles  | dockerCopyFiles                  | Copies custom files specified to build context          |
| dockerBuild      | dockerfileCreate + dockerCopyJar | Builds image with autogenerated tag                     |
| dockerPush       | dockerBuild + dockerPush         | Pushes image to docker registry                         |

**NOTE**:
- to enable `docker*` tasks, please apply plugin `application`
- `build`, `test`, `check` tasks will be modified ONLY if `java` plugin is applied 

## Configuration

All fields are optional.

build.gradle:
```gradle
soramitsu {
  projectGroup = 'sora' # define namespace for your project. default: null
  docker {
    # base docker image to be used (Dockerfile FROM instruction)
    baseImage = '8u191-jre-alpine'
    # path to output JAR which is going to be dockerized
    jar = new File("build/libs/${project.name}-${project.version}.jar") 
    # manually specified docker tag. if null, automatic versioning based on git is used 
    # it replaces only 'version' part, e.g. ${name}:${tag}. Example: soramitsu/example:${tag}
    tag = "custom-tag"  
    # to enable dockerPush task, define registry credentials
    registry {
      url = 'https://nexus.iroha.tech:19001' 
      username = 'bogdan'
      password = 'password'
      email = 'bogdan@soramitsu.co.jp'  # optional
    }
    # files that will be added to the docker image (optional)
    # host fs: docker image fs
    files = [local-file.txt: /file.txt]
    # optional startup arguments for java
    # java -jar ... $args
    args = "-version"
  }
}
```

Docker registry data can be defined from env vars. Env vars ALWAYS override any value from build.gradle:
```bash
DOCKER_REGISTRY_URL="https://nexus.iroha.tech:19001"
DOCKER_REGISTRY_USERNAME="bogdan"
DOCKER_REGISTRY_PASSWORD="password"
DOCKER_REGISTRY_EMAIL="bogdan@soramitsu.co.jp"
```

## Features

- [x] automatic versioning based on git ([read more](https://github.com/palantir/gradle-git-version/))
- [x] build does not invoke tests (only with plugin `java`)
- [ ] separate `check` task for static code analysis; formatting analysis
- [x] `coverage` task, which invokes all tests and   
- [x] `dockerBuild` task to build docker image
- [x] automatic tag generation. Tag consists of `${url}/${projectGroup}/${project.name}:${project.version}`
  - url - url of docker registry without http(s)://
  - projectGroup - e.g. sora, bakong, etc.  
  - project.name - defined in settings.gradle
  - project.version - git version
- [x] configuration of docker registry from env vars

## Examples

See [projects](./projects) directory.
